168

penal laws so wide and deep in their range, as to render

impossible, in this age, the hee exeroise of the Catholio
Religion. Suoh is the history of the reoent legislation in
Germany, in Switzerland, in Brmil, in Italy, and in other
nations-a legislation based on principles inevitably tend-
ing to fiing baok society, whioh Christianity hed made free,
under the pagan bondage of brute force.

Against thisrevolutionary spirit, whether it speaks from
high plaoes by the lips of statesmen, or in the ories of a
misguided mob, it is our imperative duty, dearly beloved
brethren‚ to defend, by every lawful means, our rights and
liberties as Catholio citizens. But we must frame our
defenoe in aooordanoe with the justioe and moderation of the
principles of the Holy Catholio Churoh. He who allovvs
his indignation at the wrong done him to hurry him into
unlawful resistanoe, is false to her teaohing equally with him
who saorifioes his oonsoienoe at the unjust bidding of those
in power. The true Catholio is neither a rebel nora slave:
and while he oheerfully yields to authority the obedienoe
whioh is its due, he refuses, with Christian manliness‚ to
submitto olaims, however speoious‚ whioh invade the rights
of God or of man.

Against one of these olaims we desire here specially to
worn yon, dearly beloved brethren, both because it is the
envenomed root whenoe the present perseeution has issued,
and beoause it is eontinuslly obtruded upon Catholios by
the press as an indisputable proof that the 'motive of the
present perseeutione is politioal, and nowise religious. We
allude to the alaim put forward on behalf of the State to
mehe laws that strike at the Churoh’s very life, on the
ground that to the State belongs the oontrol of the whole
external order of sooiety. This olaim, apparently so mo·
dest, expando, if onoe admitted without limitation‚ into
asystem of despotism the most orushing. lt is suoh as

 

